AT&T is known as, is considered to be,
a regulated monopoly.
The invention of the telephone
is credited to Graham Bell.
But Theodore Vail,
the CEO of AT&T from 1907
until 1919 is credited
with the invention of
the Bell system itself.
Early on, Mr.
Vail realized the power
of the network effect.
This was later formalized by Bob Metcalfe,
who is credited with
the invention of the Internet.
Simply, the cost of laying
the network between, and nodes is n.
You essentially, need a piece of wire
connection between each of the two nodes.
But, the value of this
network is exponential.
If you have 12 nodes in the network,
as I show here,
its value is 144.
And because Mr. Bell realized this,
he set up the Bell systems'
structure in such a way that
he would go and buy independent operators.
There were lots of independent
operators as soon as
the telephone patent expired in 1907.
So when he came back to AT&T,
he went on this buying spree.
And his main focus was
long distance services.
And he had wholly owned
subsidiary of Western Electric,
that was mainly for the manufacturing.
And in 1925, he set up Bell Labs
to do all the internal RND.
And using the money that they had,
they would go and buy the independent
exchanges in all profitable
metropolitan areas.
Rural areas,
there wasn't much money to be made.
They didn't bother.
And, this is how he was able to build
this really powerful organization.